---
title: "Constructing Topological Interlocking Assemblies Based on an Aperiodic
Monotile"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/IASS2024
venue: "IASS Symposium 2024"
date: 2024-08-27
location: "Zurich Switzerland"
---

> __Abstract__:The einstein problem asks whether there exists an aperiodic monotile, i.e. a tile whose copies can be only arranged
> as a nonperiodic tessellation of the Euclidean plane. In 2023, Smith et.\ al.\ proved the existence of such a tile 
> by constructing a tile, called "the hat", and described the corresponding tiling of the plane. Moreover, they 
> describe a two-parameter family Tile(a,b) of such monotiles, where Tile(1,sqrt(3))is the hat. Modifying the edges of 
> Tile(1,1) in a certain way leads to a chiral aperiodic monotile, which is part of a family called "spectres". Based
> on this construction, we propose blocks that can be arranged into infinite topological interlocking assemblies obeying
> the same assembly rule as the spectre tessellation. A topological interlocking assembly is an assembly of blocks that
> is constrained by a fixed frame such that each set of blocks is kinematically constrained. Our construction establishes
> the existence of aperiodic topological interlocking assemblies. In this paper, we present details of the proof that our
> constructed assemblies are indeed topological interlocking assemblies. We highlight the combinatoric and geometric 
> properties of our constructed blocks and discuss possibilities of constructing our topological interlocking assemblies
> without causing any collision of blocks during assembly.

