---
title: "A Group-Theoretic Approach for Constructing Spherical-Interlocking Assemblies"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/IASS2023
venue: "IASS Symposium 2023"
date: 2023-07-12
location: "Melbourne, Australia"
---

> __Abstract__: A topological interlocking is an assembly of blocks constrained by a fixed frame such that 
> each set of blocks is kinematically constrained. Estrin et al. [3] provide a recent overview of progress 
> in the study of topologically interlocking assemblies. Using a group-theoretic approach, we construct 
> interlocking assemblies of different polygonal surfaces. Given such a polygonal surface, we can compute
> its automorphism group and check for identified faces, i.e., faces that are identified under the symmetry
> of the given surface. The number of classes of identified faces corresponds to the number of different 
> types of blocks in the resulting assembly. Next, we deform faces to obtain an interlocking structure. 
> In this paper, we give examples of interlocking assemblies which form platonic solids or tubular interlocking
> structures. For our examples we use an algorithmic approach that can be easily generalized to arbitrary 
> tessellations of spheres and tubes. Figure 1. Construction of a spherical interlocking assembly based on 
> the icosahedron by deforming the faces of the platonic solid, (left) an icosahedron, (middle) different 
> perspectives on the resulting interlocking block, (right) assembly of the 3D printed blocks to form the 
> topological interlocking assembly

